README.md, before:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![MIT License][license-shield]][license-url]

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<div align="center">
  <!-- <a href="https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project">
    <img src="images/logo.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
  </a> -->
<h3 align="center">Senior Project</h3>
  <p align="center">
    description here!
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/wiki"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#development-setup">Development Setup</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->

## About The Project

<!-- <img src="images/Screenshot.png" alt="screenshot" width="960" height="540"> -->

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Built With

Add in a your tech stack here!

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running follow these simple example steps.

### Installation

1. Clone Repository
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/Klinefelters/Senior-Project
   ```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- Development Setup -->

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Rust](https://tauri.app/v1/guides/getting-started/prerequisites/)

1. Clone the repo:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project
   ```
2. Install the project:
   ```bash
   cd senior-sage
   npm i
   ```
3. Install [Ollama](https://ollama.com/)

4. Pull and test the model in the terminal:

   ```bash
   ollama run tinyllama
   ```

5. Run the project:
   ```bash
   npm run tauri dev
   ```

   <!-- Vosk -->

## Vosk

To ensure Vosk runs successfully, you'll need the appropriate Vosk files for your operating system. Visit this [website](https://github.com/alphacep/vosk-api/releases/tag/v0.3.45) to download the correct files.

### Windows 
- Download the vosk-win64-0.3.45.zip file.

- Extract the contents of the ZIP file.

- Place all extracted files into the src-tauri folder.
### Linux
- Download the Linux ZIP file that matches your system's architecture (e.g., aarch64, armv7, RISC, etc.).

- Extract the contents of the ZIP file.

- Place all extracted files into the libvosk folder within the src-tauri directory.

 <p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- LICENSE -->

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- CONTACT -->

## Contact

Klinefelters - klinefelters@etown.edu

JCulk - culkinj@etown.edu

JStoner -Stonerj@etown.edu

joshschmitt35 - schmittj@etown.edu

Project Link: [https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project](https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
<!-- ## Acknowledgments -->

<!-- <p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p> -->

<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->

[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/klinefelters/Senior-Project.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/klinefelters/Senior-Project.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/klinefelters/Senior-Project.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/klinefelters/Senior-Project.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/klinefelters/Senior-Project.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/blob/master/LICENSE.txt

Commit message:

Dev (#21)
* removed unneeded info

* Clean up frontend dependencies

* Trying seeded options

* refactoring and upgrading

* Still refactoring, cards need designing

* Disabled the home navigation while llm responses are loading

* refactored and relabeled

* remove nesting

* double checking and making sure it works

* Added .env file for linux vs windows changes

* Add example .env configuration for Windows to README

* added avatar

* make person bigger

* Refactor Speaking and Llm components for improved structure and animation

* Changed avatar to be amy

* Update component widths for consistency and improve layout structure

* refactor and rename

* different voices

* Add Ryan page and update routing in App component

* Add David page and update routing; refine introductions for Amy and Ryan

* Add William page and update routing; replace David references with William

* Add Pixelify Sans font and update Home page layout

* small fixes and .env variables for ollama model

* working (#20)

README.md, after:

<a name="readme-top"></a>

[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![MIT License][license-shield]][license-url]

<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<div align="center">
  <!-- <a href="https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project">
    <img src="images/logo.png" alt="Logo" width="150" height="150">
  </a> -->
<h3 align="center">Senior Project</h3>
  <p align="center">
    description here!
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/wiki"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</div>

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#about-the-project">About The Project</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#getting-started">Getting Started</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#prerequisites">Prerequisites</a></li>
        <li><a href="#installation">Installation</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#development-setup">Development Setup</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contributing">Contributing</a></li>
    <li><a href="#license">License</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->

## About The Project

<!-- <img src="images/Screenshot.png" alt="screenshot" width="960" height="540"> -->

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

### Built With

Add in a your tech stack here!

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->

## Getting Started

To get a local copy up and running follow these simple example steps.

### Installation

1. Clone Repository
   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/Klinefelters/Senior-Project
   ```

2. Add a .env file to the root of the cloned repository
  ```sh
  OPERATING_SYSTEM=Windows 
  #OPERATING_SYSTEM=Linux 

  PATH_TO_PIPER_MODELS=D:/piper
  ```

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- Development Setup -->

## Development Setup

### Prerequisites

- [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/)
- [Rust](https://tauri.app/v1/guides/getting-started/prerequisites/)

1. Clone the repo:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project
   ```
2. Install the project:
   ```bash
   cd senior-sage
   npm i
   ```
3. Install [Ollama](https://ollama.com/)

4. Pull and test the model in the terminal:

   ```bash
   ollama run tinyllama
   ```

5. Run the project:
   ```bash
   npm run tauri dev
   ```

   <!-- Vosk -->

## Vosk

To ensure Vosk runs successfully, you'll need the appropriate Vosk files for your operating system. Visit this [website](https://github.com/alphacep/vosk-api/releases/tag/v0.3.45) to download the correct files.

### Windows 
- Download the vosk-win64-0.3.45.zip file.

- Extract the contents of the ZIP file.

- Place all extracted files into the src-tauri folder.
### Linux
- Download the Linux ZIP file that matches your system's architecture (e.g., aarch64, armv7, RISC, etc.).

- Extract the contents of the ZIP file.

- Place all extracted files into the libvosk folder within the src-tauri directory.

 <p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- CONTRIBUTING -->

## Contributing

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

If you have a suggestion that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request. You can also simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks again!

1. Fork the Project
2. Create your Feature Branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your Changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the Branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- LICENSE -->

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE.txt` for more information.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- CONTACT -->

## Contact

Klinefelters - klinefelters@etown.edu

JCulk - culkinj@etown.edu

JStoner -Stonerj@etown.edu

joshschmitt35 - schmittj@etown.edu

Project Link: [https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project](https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
<!-- ## Acknowledgments -->

<!-- <p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p> -->

<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->

[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/klinefelters/Senior-Project.svg?style=for-the-badge
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/klinefelters/Senior-Project.svg?style=for-the-badge
[forks-url]: https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/klinefelters/Senior-Project.svg?style=for-the-badge
[stars-url]: https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/klinefelters/Senior-Project.svg?style=for-the-badge
[issues-url]: https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/klinefelters/Senior-Project.svg?style=for-the-badge
[license-url]: https://github.com/klinefelters/Senior-Project/blob/master/LICENSE.txt
